README.md, before:

# DevOps Configuration Tracker

A command-line application built using Python and some Software Engineering Principles that allows teams to manage software configuration items across **Development**, **Staging**, and **Production** environments.

---

## 🚀 Features

- 📌 **Add Configuration Items** (name, version, environment, status)
- 📋 **View All Config Items** with details
- ✏️ **Update Item Status** (Active / Inactive)
- ❌ **Delete Config Items**
- 🔍 **Search Config Items by Name**
- 💾 **Persistent Storage** with JSON file

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```
DevOps_Configuration_Tracker/
├── config_tracker.py      # Main application logic
├── config_item.py         # Configuration item class
├── config_items.json      # Data storage file
├── README.md              # Project documentation
├── SRS.md                 # Software Requirement Specification
└── .gitignore             # Git ignored files config

```
---

## 🧠 What I Learned from this Project

- Python OOP concepts (classes, objects)
- File handling and data persistence using JSON
- Building modular CLI applications
- Git basics: add, commit, push, versioing
- Structuring a real-world project

---

## ⚙️ How to Run

>Make sure Python is installed on your system.

1. Clone the repository
2. Open terminal and run the script using:

```bash
python config_tracker.py
```
---

## Sample CLI Menu
```
1. Add Configuration Item
2. View Configuration Items
3. Update Configuration Status
4. Delete Configuration Item
5. Search Configuration Item
6. EXIT
```
---

## 🛠 Technologies Used
- 🐍 Python 3.x

- 🗃️ JSON (for data handling)

- 🔧 Git & GitHub (for version control)

---

## 🧪 Environments Supported

- **Dev** for internal development
- **Staging** Pre-production test environment
- **Prod** Live production environment 

---

## 📚 Why This Project?
This project was built as part of my journey to learn Python and Software Engineering concepts.  
It helped me understand and apply my knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in a practical way.

-✅ Python programming

-✅ Command-line interfaces (CLI) design

-✅ File I/O and data persistence with JSON

-✅ Git version control workflows

-✅ Software Engineering Principles (SDLC, Modular design)

---

## 👤 Author
Bhuvan T H

GitHub: @iam-bth

Commit message:

Added sample configuration items to demonstrate functionality

README.md, after:

# DevOps Configuration Tracker

A command-line application built using Python and some Software Engineering Principles that allows teams to manage software configuration items across **Development**, **Staging**, and **Production** environments.

---

## 🚀 Features

- 📌 **Add Configuration Items** (name, version, environment, status)
- 📋 **View All Config Items** with details
- ✏️ **Update Item Status** (Active / Inactive)
- ❌ **Delete Config Items**
- 🔍 **Search Config Items by Name**
- 💾 **Persistent Storage** with JSON file

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```
DevOps_Configuration_Tracker/
├── config_tracker.py      # Main application logic
├── config_item.py         # Configuration item class
├── config_items.json      # Data storage file
├── README.md              # Project documentation
├── SRS.md                 # Software Requirement Specification
└── .gitignore             # Git ignored files config

```
---

## 🧠 What I Learned from this Project

- Python OOP concepts (classes, objects)
- File handling and data persistence using JSON
- Building modular CLI applications
- Git basics: add, commit, push, versioing
- Structuring a real-world project

---

## ⚙️ How to Run

>Make sure Python is installed on your system.

1. Clone the repository
2. Open terminal and run the script using:

```bash
python config_tracker.py
```
---

## Sample CLI Menu
```
1. Add Configuration Item
2. View Configuration Items
3. Update Configuration Status
4. Delete Configuration Item
5. Search Configuration Item
6. EXIT
```
---

## 🧾 Sample Data
The project includes a `config_items.json` file pre-filled with sample configuration items to demonstrate functionality.

---

## 🛠 Technologies Used
- 🐍 Python 3.x

- 🗃️ JSON (for data handling)

- 🔧 Git & GitHub (for version control)

---

## 🧪 Environments Supported

- **Dev** for internal development
- **Staging** Pre-production test environment
- **Prod** Live production environment 

---

## 📚 Why This Project?
This project was built as part of my journey to learn Python and Software Engineering concepts.  
It helped me understand and apply my knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in a practical way.

-✅ Python programming

-✅ Command-line interfaces (CLI) design

-✅ File I/O and data persistence with JSON

-✅ Git version control workflows

-✅ Software Engineering Principles (SDLC, Modular design)

---

## 👤 Author
Bhuvan T H

GitHub: @iam-bth
